Add create transaction signature guide (#49)
icon-project/icon-project.github.io: docs/transaction_signature.md

  - [Required data](#Required-data)
    - [Private key](#Private-key)
    - [Transaction hash](#Transaction-hash)
  - [Create signature](#Create-signature)
  - [Example](#example-1)

# Serialize transaction data

Before signing the data, the data needs to be serialized as bytes.
This section describes how to serialize the transaction data.
This document does not describe how to make the transaction data itself. Transaction message specification is defined in [JSON-RPC API v3](https://github.com/icon-project/icon-rpc-server/blob/master/docs/icon-json-rpc-v3.md).

## Precondition

Transaction data is in JSON format with some restrictions.

### Allowed types in JSON

| Type       | Description                                                  |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| String     | Normal string without U+0000 (NULL) character. ex) “Value”   |
| Dictionary | Pairs of key and value. ex) {“key1”: “value1”, “key1”: “value2”} |
| Array      | Series of values. ex) [“value1”, “value2”]                   |
| Null       | null                                                         |

## Serialize

> ICON follows the JSON-RPC v2.0 protocol spec. A singed transaction request looks like the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ICON follows the JSON-RPC v2.0 protocol spec. A signed transaction request looks like the following: 
```

# Introduction

> This document describes how to generate a transaction signature. There are two major operations for generating the signature, serialize the original transaction data and sign the serialized data with user's own private key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a user sends a transaction, they need to sign the data with their own private key. There are two major steps involved in signing the transaction, serializing the original transaction data and generating a signature with user's own private key. This document describes the process of generating a digital signature to sign the transaction data.
```

Author: I think the last sentence  'This document describes the process of generating a digital signature to sign the transaction data.' should be changed to 'This document describes the process of generating a digital signature of transaction data'.

Reviewer 2: agreed. except the definition of "transaction data', which is a bit unclear to me.

- [Serialize transaction data](#Serialize-transaction-data)

>   - [Pre-condition](#Pre-condition)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - [Precondition](#Precondition)
```

    - [Allowed types in JSON](#Allowed-types-in-JSON)
  - [Serialize](#Serialize)
    - [String type](#String-type)
    - [Dictionary type](#Dictionary-type)
    - [Array type](#Array-type)
    - [Null type](#Null-type)
  - [Example](#example)
    - [Normal send transaction](#Normal-send-transaction)
    - [SCORE API Invoke](#SCORE-API-Invoke)
- [Create transaction signature](#Create-transaction-signature)
  - [Required data](#Required-data)
    - [Private key](#Private-key)
    - [Transaction hash](#Transaction-hash)
  - [Create signature](#Create-signature)
  - [Example](#example-1)

# Serialize transaction data

> When a user sends a transaction, he needs to sign the data with his own private key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Before signing the data, it needs to be serialized as bytes for generating a hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before signing the data, the data needs to be serialized as bytes.
```

This section describes how to serialize the transaction data.

> But it doesn't describe how to make the transaction data itself. It is described in [JSON-RPC API v3](https://github.com/icon-project/icon-rpc-server/blob/master/docs/icon-json-rpc-v3.md) documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document does not describe how to make the transaction data itself. Transaction message specification is defined in [JSON-RPC API v3](https://github.com/icon-project/icon-rpc-server/blob/master/docs/icon-json-rpc-v3.md).
```

> ## Pre-condition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Precondition
```

> Transaction data is written in JSON with some restrictions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transaction data is in JSON format with some restrictions.
```

### Allowed types in JSON

| Type       | Description                                                  |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| String     | Normal string without U+0000 (NULL) character. ex) “Value”   |
| Dictionary | Pairs of key and value. ex) {“key1”: “value1”, “key1”: “value2”} |
| Array      | Series of values. ex) [“value1”, “value2”]                   |
| Null       | null                                                         |

## Serialize

> ICON uses JSON-RPC v2.0. And the transaction request looks like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ICON follows the JSON-RPC v2.0 protocol spec. A singed transaction request looks like the following:
```

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "icx_sendTransaction",
    "id": 1234,
    "params": {
        "version": "0x3",
        "from": "hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11",
        "to": "hx5bfdb090f43a808005ffc27c25b213145e80b7cd",
        "value": "0xde0b6b3a7640000",
        "stepLimit": "0x12345",
        "timestamp": "0x563a6cf330136",
        "nonce": "0x1",
        "signature": "VAia7YZ2Ji6igKWzjR2YsGa2m53nKPrfK7uXYW78QLE+ATehAVZPC40szvAiA6NEU5gCYB4c4qaQzqDh2ugcHgA="
    }
}
```

> Serialization is applied on `params` field value, a dictionary. Of course, the `signature` field is ignored. It uses the same rule of Dictionary except that it doesn't have any brace for each end. And it will have a method name (“icx_sendTransaction”) as the prefix of serialized data. It uses `.` for the separator between name and object data itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transaction data is serialized by concatenating key, value pairs in `params` with `.` as a delimiter. Our final goal is generating the `signature` to sign the transaction, therefore, the `signature` field shown above example is not part of the data to be serialized. Adding the method name, “icx_sendTransaction” in this example, to the serialized string as a prefix completes the serialization process.
```

```

> icx_sendTransaction.<key1>.<value1>.<key2>.<value2>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<method>.<key1>.<value1>....<keyN>.<valueN>
```

Author: '<method>' prefix is always 'icx_sendTransaction', so I think 'icx_sendTransaction.<key1>.<value1>....<keyN>.<valueN>' is more Explicit expression.

Reviewer 2: i see.

```

> You may refer UTF-8 encoded byte for all special characters in String type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that all the special characters in string must be UTF-8 encoded.
```

### String type

> Apply UTF-8 encoding to the text. Characters in the list below should be escaped with `\`. Key and string must not have any null character, U+0000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apply UTF-8 encoding to the text. Characters listed below should be escaped with `\`. String must not have any null character, U+0000.
```

| Name  | Backslash (REVERSE SOLIDUS) | Period (FULL STOP) | Left curly bracket | Right curly bracket | Left square bracket | Right square bracket |
| ----- | --------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- |
| Shape | *\\*                        | **.**              | **{**              | **}**               | **[**               | **]**                |
| UTF-8 | 0x5C                        | 0x2E               | 0x7B               | 0x7D                | 0x5B                | 0x5D                 |

### Dictionary type

> Enclosed with `{` and `}`, and key/value pairs are separated with `.`. The encoding of key follows encoding of String type. The order of keys follows normal “UTF-8” encoding byte comparison (it’s same as Unicode string order).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enclosed with `{` and `}`, and key/value pairs are separated with `.`. Every keys in dictionary are string type, therefore, the same encoding rules apply. The order of keys in the serialized data follows the natural ordering of the UTF-8 encoded byte comparison (it’s same as Unicode string order).
```

```
{<key1>.<value1>.<key2>.<value2>}
```

Example:

```json
{
       "version": "0x3",
       "from": "hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11",
       "to": "cxb0776ee37f5b45bfaea8cff1d8232fbb6122ec32",
       "value": "0xde0b6b3a7640000",
       "stepLimit": "0x12345",
       "timestamp": "0x563a6cf330136"
}
```

Serialized as

``` 
{from.hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11.stepLimit.0x12345.timestamp.0x563a6cf330136.to.cxb0776ee37f5b45bfaea8cff1d8232fbb6122ec32.value.0xde0b6b3a7640000.version.0x3}
```

### Array type

Enclosed with `[` and `]`. All values are separated with `.`.

``` 
[<value1>.<value2>.<value3>]
```

### Null type

Null will be represented as an escaped zero.

```
\0
```

## Example

> ### Normal ICX transfer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### ICX transfer
```

Original JSON request:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "icx_sendTransaction",
    "id": 1234,
    "params": {
        "version": "0x3",
        "from": "hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11",
        "to": "hx5bfdb090f43a808005ffc27c25b213145e80b7cd",
        "value": "0xde0b6b3a7640000",
        "stepLimit": "0x12345",
        "timestamp": "0x563a6cf330136",
        "nonce": "0x1"
    }
}
```

Serialized params:

```
icx_sendTransaction.from.hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11.nonce.0x1.stepLimit.0x12345.timestamp.0x563a6cf330136.to.hx5bfdb090f43a808005ffc27c25b213145e80b7cd.value.0xde0b6b3a7640000.version.0x3
```

> ### SCORE API Invoke

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### SCORE API invocation
```

Original JSON request:

```json

{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "icx_sendTransaction",
    "id": 1234,
    "params": {
        "version": "0x3",
        "from": "hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11",
        "to": "cxb0776ee37f5b45bfaea8cff1d8232fbb6122ec32",
        "stepLimit": "0x12345",
        "timestamp": "0x563a6cf330136",
        "nonce": "0x1",
        "dataType": "call",
        "data": {
            "method": "transfer",
            "params": {
                "to": "hxab2d8215eab14bc6bdd8bfb2c8151257032ecd8b",
                "value": "0x1"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Serialized params:

 ```
icx_sendTransaction.data.{method.transfer.params.{to.hxab2d8215eab14bc6bdd8bfb2c8151257032ecd8b.value.0x1}}.dataType.call.from.hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11.nonce.0x1.stepLimit.0x12345.timestamp.0x563a6cf330136.to.cxb0776ee37f5b45bfaea8cff1d8232fbb6122ec32.version.0x3
 ```

# Create transaction signature

> For a transaction to be executed successfully, a user needs to create and present the signature with which user can prove the ownership of the address. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> This section describes how to create a valid signature using address's private key and serialized transaction data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes how to create a valid signature for a transaction using the private key associated with a specific wallet address.
```

Author: I think 'specific address' is the more preferable word. a wallet is kind of an app or program that allows sending and receiving ICX or tokens.

Reviewer 2: true. but i added 'wallet' because the term 'address' is too generic, and more specifically because it is EOA, not CA, and 'wallet' implicitly means EOA.  however no objection to remove 'wallet' if you insist.

Author: I left 'wallet' word as your comment is reasonable.

## Required data

### Private key

> The private key of `from` address which was used for generating a transaction data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The private key of the `from` address from which the transaction request was made.
```

### Transaction hash 

32 bytes (256-bit) hash data which is created by hashing the serialized transaction data using SHA3_256.

## Create signature

> The first step is making a serialized signature. Using the `secp256k1` library, create recoverable ECDSA signature of a transaction. At this point, transaction hash is used as message data (used for validation of transaction). The result data should be 64 bytes serialized signature (R, S) + 1 byte recovery id (V).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first step is making a serialized signature. Using the `secp256k1` library, create a recoverable ECDSA signature of a transaction hash. This ensures that the transaction was originated from the private key owner, and the transaction message received by the recipient is not compromised. The resulting output should be 64 bytes serialized signature (R, S) with 1 byte recovery id (V).  
```

> The final step is encoding serialized signature. Based on Base64, encode serialized signature. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final step is encoding the serialized signature. Base64-encode the serialized signature. 
```

## Example 

Below is the example of creating a signature in python. 

> Here is the transaction data. We will create a transaction signature using these data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a sample transaction request message. We will create a transaction signature using these data.
```

Reviewer: The term, `transaction data`, is more preferable, since it is a raw form of the request message.

Reviewer 2: in fact, i am confused with the terms. 
- transaction
- transaction data 
- transaction request message
- raw transaction 
by transaction request message, i meant the json request message.  maybe you mean the payload ?

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "icx_sendTransaction",
    "id": 1234,
    "params": {
        "version": "0x3",
        "from": "hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11",
        "to": "cxb0776ee37f5b45bfaea8cff1d8232fbb6122ec32",
        "value": "0xde0b6b3a7640000",
        "stepLimit": "0x12345",
        "timestamp": "0x563a6cf330136"
    }
}
```

Serialize transaction data.

```
icx_sendTransaction.from.hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11.stepLimit.0x12345.timestamp.0x563a6cf330136.to.cxb0776ee37f5b45bfaea8cff1d8232fbb6122ec32.value.0xde0b6b3a7640000.version.0x3
```

> Hash the serialized transaction data and create transaction signature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hash the serialized transaction data and create a transaction signature.
```

```python
import base64
import hashlib
import secp256k1

serialized_transaction = "icx_sendTransaction.from.hxbe258ceb872e08851f1f59694dac2558708ece11.stepLimit.0x12345.timestamp.0x563a6cf330136.to.cxb0776ee37f5b45bfaea8cff1d8232fbb6122ec32.value.0xde0b6b3a7640000.version.0x3"

# transaction_hash
# result: b'\xc4\xa3\xa8\xae\xb5uH\x90\\\xfd\x9a1a\x9b\xe0\x05W\xf6\x03\x9a9\xac\xb8\xc5o\xce\x14\xcak\xae\x1f\x08'
msg_hash = hashlib.sha3_256(serialized_transaction.encode()).digest()

> # prepare the private key (this private key is just used for example)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# prepare the private key (this private key is for example purpose)
```

private_key = b'\x870\x91*\xef\xedB\xac\x05\x8f\xd3\xf6\xfdvu8\x11\x04\xd49\xb3\xe1\x1f\x17\x1fTR\xd4\xf9\x19mL'

# create a private key object
private_key_object = secp256k1.PrivateKey(private_key)

# create a recoverable ECDSA signature
recoverable_signature = private_key_object.ecdsa_sign_recoverable(msg_hash, raw=True)

> # convert the result from ecdsa_sign_recoverable to a tuple composed of 65 bytes and an integer denominated as recovery id.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# convert the result from ecdsa_sign_recoverable to a tuple composed of 64 bytes and an integer denominated as recovery id.
```
